~~~ VERSION 1 ~~~
For the first attempt, we just tried to write the simplest possible version which would run:
 - initialise_particle_cloud samples from Gaussian distributions for x, y and theta
 - update_particle_cloud uses roulette wheel sampling
 - estimate_pose takes the average of all particles' positions and orientations

observations:
 - with a good initial estimate, or a large enough spread of initial particles, the robot would
   sometimes be able to localise to the correct pose.
 - due to similarity between different areas of our test map (e.g. lots of right-angled corners,
   similarly-sized corridors and rooms) the robot would often localise to an incorrect position.
 - the robot has no ability to recover from an incorrect localisation unless it happens to drive
   through its estimated position by accident, in which case the noise from the odometry model
   would sometimes produce accurate particles which would be weighted high enough to correct the
   cloud over time.


~~~ VERSION 2 ~~~
Next we tried adding in a few randomly-placed particles in each update step, to help the
robot recover when it is lost. The random particles have a chance of being resampled
proportional to their weight from the sensor model.

We also reduced the noise values for the odometry model and for the particle cloud initialisation.

observations:
 - given an accurate enough initial pose, the robot was able to localise reasonably well
 - sometimes the random particles would cause its best guess to become incorrect, especially
   in areas with symmetry
 - the random particles also enabled the robot to fix the incorrect guesses, if it moved around
   a bit to a less symmetrical area


~~~ VERSION 3 ~~~
Next we tried replacing each random particle with a group of particles. All the particles a group
have the same randomly-chosen position, but their orientations are spread evenly within the full
range of orientations. We chose to have 4 particles per group, so their orientations were offset
by right-angles.

observations:
 - because of the increased number of random particles, the estimated pose is a lot less stable as it
   is averaging the position of all resampled particles.


~~~ VERSION 4 ~~~
To fix the problem in version 3, we updated our pose estimation method such that it ignores any
particles whose X or Y position is further away from the mean by some multiple of the standard
deviation. The hope was that this would stop the random particles from making the estimated pose
so unstable.

observations:
 - once the estimated pose is close to the true pose, the localisation is reasonably stable.
 - occasionally the estimated pose becomes unstable due to a random particle with a particularly
   high weight, often in areas with some symmetry
 - the cross-shaped random particle groups seem to be increasing the chance that the robot's
   best guess rotates by some multiple of 90 degrees, which can be problematic in rotationally
   symmetrical areas like corridors.


~~~ VERSION 5 ~~~
Having decided that the rotationally-symmetric particle groups were a hinderance, mainly due to 
the large increase in random particles, we decided to take a different approach.
We still wanted to exploit the rotational symmetry of some maps, for example most buildings have
corridors which are symmetric when rotated by 180 degrees, and most rooms have right-angled corners
which appear similar to the robot.
Our new approach involved adjusting the probability distribution of the random particles' headings,
such that the most likely headings are 0, 90, 180 and 270 degrees offset from the current estimated
pose. To do this, the heading of a random particle is decided by:
 - sampling from a normal distribution centred at the current heading
 - rotating the result by 0, 90, 180 or 270 degrees with equal chance of each
This gives a 'star-shaped' distribution of possible headings with the points at right angles to one
another.

observations:
 - this approach to the random particles was our most successful so far, the robot had a much better
   chance to recover when its estimated pose was offset by 90 or 180 degrees compared to the true
   pose.
 - the robot would still 'lose itself' sometimes, fixating on an incorrect pose estimate which was
   too heavily weighted. However, when this occurs the particle cloud was almost always noticeably
   more spread out.

N.B. this version also has a refactored roulette wheel sampling algorithm, with a fix for a very slight logic error.


~~~ VERSION 5a ~~~
This version has no new features compared to version 5, but has better performance due to no longer
allocating new Pose objects in update_particle_cloud. This is achieved by double-buffering the
particle cloud.

It also removes the utility functions from previous versions which it no longer uses.


~~~ VERSION 6 ~~~
To try and improve the robot's ability to correct itself when its estimate is a long way from correct,
we allowed the algorithm to adapt the number of particles being sampled from according to how unsure
the robot is of its position.

Specifically, after the weights of the existing particles have been calculated, random particles are added
until the sum of the weights reaches a specified threshold. Additionally, as more random particles are
added, the amount of noise in their positions and orientations increases.

observations:
 - the robot's ability to correct incorrect estimates has improved significantly.
 - when the robot is sure of where it is (ie. the weights are high) it does not add random particles,
   which significantly reduces the likelihood of it getting 'lost' in the first place.
